---
layout: default.liquid
---

# Anthony Vashevko

<div id="nav">
    <nav>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="/files/cv.pdf">CV</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://www.insead.edu/faculty-research/faculty/anthony-vashevko">INSEAD</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=5dNZZ2UAAAAJ">Google Scholar</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/balachia">Github</a></li>
        </ul>
    </nav>
</div>

## About Me

I am an Assistant Professor of Organisational Behaviour at
[INSEAD](https://www.insead.edu). I'm an organizational theorist studying
categorization, strategic decision-making, and social networks. I do that
through formal models and computational techniques. I like coding up new ways to
solve problems.

## Teaching

At INSEAD, I teach Organisational Behaviour 2, a core class focused on
organization-scale social dynamics, including organizational culture, social
networks and networking, organizational design, and change.

To help teach students about networks, I designed an easy-to-use class network
survey tool and presentation dashboard that illustrates concepts of network
position, centrality, and clustering with a live view of the students' own
network. You should take a look:
[code](https://github.com/balachia/class-survey) and
[dashboard](https://balachia.shinyapps.io/ob2-survey).

## Research

My work has focused on theoretical questions in market categorization,
innovation, and social networks. Literature in organizational theory has a
tendency to fragment into fiefdoms that struggle to communicate not just at the
level of findings, but at the level of basic assumptions about the settings they
describe. My work has aimed to bridge these gaps: between work on market
categorizations and competitive strategy, between inter-organizational
coordination problems and the behavioral theory of the firm, between research on
personal status and work on intertemporal decision-making. I have focused on
identifying theoretical problems and gaps existing within these streams of work
and on providing formal approaches that help interpret, extend, and unify
existing findings. Where possible, I have attempted to apply these theoretical
extensions to empirical settings, especially in my work on social networks.

**[Does the Middle Conform or Compete? Quality Thresholds Predict the Locus of Innovation](https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.2018.1240)**
 | [pdf](/files/mid-status.pdf)

*Anthony Vashevko*

Organization Science — Vol 30, No 1 (2019)

Where does innovation come from? This research models producer incentives to
innovate with a focus on the role of audiences in constructing quality
thresholds within markets. Market audiences create mechanisms for identifying
the highest quality producers in a market. I highlight a key distinction between
fixed quality thresholds (such as accreditations) and quality thresholds that
respond to producer quality (such as rankings or best-of-breed awards).
Producers evaluate how the inherently risky nature of innovation interacts with
these thresholds. The model predicts conditions under which innovation emerges
from the best producers in a market, from producers near the threshold in a
market, from both, or from nowhere. Such predictions generalize and simplify
several existing organizational theories of innovation.


**[Dynamic Models of Communication in an Online Friendship Network](https://doi.org/10.1080/19312458.2014.967843)**

*Brooke Foucault Welles, Anthony Vashevko, Nick Bennett, Noshir Contractor*

Communication Methods and Measures — Vol 8, No 4 (2014)

In this article, we argue for the usefulness of relational event network
analysis to study online communication networks. Unlike other network analytic
techniques that require online communication data to be summarized prior to
analysis, relational event network analysis uses un-summarized time-stamped data
to track the dynamic evolution of communication networks. To illustrate, we use
relational event network analysis to analyze the evolution of a communication
network within the virtual world Second Life. Results suggest that there are
different patterns of communication among nonfriends and friends within the
network. Nonfriends tend to communicate with those they have communicated with
in the past, reciprocate communication, and close communication triads. Friends
tend not to communicate with those they have communicated with in the past,
instead preferring to reciprocate communication and close triads. We discuss
implications for the study of online communication and identify directions for
future research using relational event network analysis.


**[Visualizing hierarchical social networks](https://doi.org/10.1177/2378023118772982)**

*Kurtulus Gemici, Anthony Vashevko*

Socius — Vol 4 (2018)

The authors propose a novel technique for the visualization of networks that
contain a hierarchical structure: networks in which certain nodes and groups of
nodes can be classified through a relation of precedence. Networks with a
hierarchical structure frequently arise in sociology and various other
disciplines, but the existing methods for visualizing such networks leave much
to be desired. The method developed in this work builds on the tradition of
visualization in social network analysis; it aims to simultaneously represent
the positions of different nodes and the relationships between groups containing
the nodes in the network. As such, the proposed visualization method facilitates
theoretical and empirical analysis of social structures by algorithmically
combining information from the underlying network with the information from the
hierarchical structure of the network. The authors illustrate the proposed
method with social networks examined through cohesive blocking and k-core
decomposition.


**The Natural Emergence of Category Effects on Rugged Landscapes**
 | [pdf](/files/producer-categories.pdf)

*Anthony Vashevko*

Category theory finds that markets partition producers into categories and that
producers who do not fit one specific category—or who span multiple
categories—perform worse than their single-category peers. The dominant thread
of category theory argues that categorizations stem from the bounded rationality
of market audiences, who are forced to impose categorizations and ignore
miscategorized producers to efficiently interact with the market. I present an
alternative model in which producers in a market segregate into categories and
experience an apparent miscategorization penalty not driven by a market
audience: In a complex environment, producers imitate successful predecessors.
Ex-post rationalization identifies clusters as categories. Categories reflect,
but do not cause, producer success. This model of exploration of a complex
environment accounts for the basic findings of category theory, and it predicts
the dynamics of category emergence and change over time. I establish these
results in a formal model and simulation.


**The Matthew Effect as Skill and Strategy**
 | [pdf](/files/matthew.pdf)

*Anthony Vashevko*

Literature on Matthew effects and cumulative advantage typically conceives of
the Matthew effect as a property of the field in which actors operate. This
paper proposes a reinterpretation of the Matthew effect as a property of the
individual—as a capability an actor may possess or as a strategy an actor may
pursue. This paper discusses the consequences of a strategic interpretation of
Matthew effects, including the factors required to incentivize actors to pursue
them and the consequences of such pursuit. In addition, the paper highlights
how strategic pursuit of cumulative advantage can generate paradoxical results,
including the reduction of inequality in response to tournament-based
competitive settings.

## Get in touch

anthony.vashevko@insead.edu
